>> If you wanna actually use this in a web
page, you can use this fantastic library.
I think I've used it every day so
far these talks called yo-yo.
There's also bel.
These are related.
So this library yo-yo uses hyperx and
it uses this other library
called morphdom, and
what morphdom does is just like you
can get in react with the virtual DOM.
It can sort of compute the difference
between two DOM trees.
And in the performance benchmarks that
they've run, it's actually just as fast
to compare real DOM nodes as it
is to compare virtual DOM nodes.
And then the benefit is that if you use
that technique, you can interoperate
with maybe older code that expects that
generates kind of classic DOM nodes and
you don't have to spend a lot of time
kind of fighting between the real DOM and
the virtual DOM like you might have to if
you're using a virtual DOM based system.
So let's just see what that looks like,
cuz it's really nice.
So I'm gonna go in this directory and
we're gonna make a thing called yo.js.
You can require yo-yo like this.
And just for starters,
we can do something in node and
then I'll make it run in the browser.
So you can't pass in fragments.
You actually have to
pass in a single element.
So if you just begin everything with div
and /div, that's probably good enough.
So we can have a little thing,
can have a variable in there and
define it outside.
So this works just like you might expect.
Except in node, you're actually
going to get a fake DOM tree,
because node doesn't have a real DOM.
So it has to use a fake one.
But if you call toString,
then you get back a string, pretty cool.
So hopefully you can already see how this
might be really useful if you want to
write code that's gonna run in the server
to render something the first time
you load a page and then it's
gonna sort of upgrade itself into.
And so just running in the browser and
doing reactive diffing operations
without having to do a network round
trip every time can be really good.
Okay, so if we wanna make this
actually run in a real browser,
what we can do is you
can call html.update and
you can give it some sort of root element
that it's gonna do the DOM diffing on.
So I'll just create one of those.
This is my standard way of doing that.
You can do it in one line, because
appendChild will return its argument.
So.
Can make a div and then have a handle
on that div at the same time.
So that's just a shorthand for
doing these two statements.
So this would be if I'd done this
So this and
this is the same thing just so you know.
So if I call html.update, then if I
just have some blank HTML to use,
I get with budo commands which
you can get npm-install-gbudo.
It runs browserify behind the scenes and
then it's gonna run a local server for us.
We see object HTMLDivElement,
because I'm still calling that toString.
So if I remove that,
then oops, there we go 5.
So what's really cool is when we start
to actually modify things, modify state.
A simple way to do that
is to put our update
logic in our markup here into a function.
We wanna call the function the first
time we load the page, but also we might
have other elements, other activities
that are gonna change that state.
So for example,
we might have a timer that's going to
change that state like every
second will increment n.
And then if we want the page to re-render,
we can call the update function again.
We do that.
And now, we have a counter that
counts up seconds starting from five.
So I'm gonna commit that to the repo.
Along with hyperx one and this one.
Whoops, getting my git
command's confused here.
Okay, so hopefully, I'll have a chance to
play with this kind of stuff over lunch.
Another thing that I wanna show
really quick is that you can,
whoops, is that you can also
have things like events.
So to do that, maybe we'll have a button
instead of doing a set interval and
that's gonna modify something else.
So maybe we're also gonna have another
variable x in a div and
we'll have a button
with an onclick event that says, CLICK ME.
We'll start out x at 0.
And then every time we click that button,
we can increment x and
call the update function.
So we have our counter like before.
So that's going on.
And now, we have a button.
When we click it, it goes up.
>> So that's like very bare
bones react kind of stuff.
>> Yep, that's all it takes.
You don't have to have
a billion line config file.
You don't have to have jsx.
You don't have to have
much of anything at all.
You just need a little bundler.
That's pretty much it and
you get almost all of the benefits.
And if you want more of the advanced
features, there's modules for that.